Okay. The tapes are rolling and I believe I see the needle's moving. Okay.
Since the siege of wonder came out, we haven't seen anything, any novels or short stories either.
We talked about this a while ago, but this is for the tape. Do you plan to do
any more writing? Have you outgrown that? Is that gone? Oh, no. Oh gosh, it's
like being
a Catholic. No one is never a Catholic again. You just don't happen to be doing
it at any one time. I certainly, desperately hope to keep writing and put
something together which will be a good piece of work. Right now, as I said, at
the time, I hope I'm becoming also a better lawyer a more able attorney and that
means I can do more and I am expected to do more and I want to. Also we now have
three children instead of two and that all presents a lot of breaks in the day
and a reduction of available time. It's rather difficult to be turning over a
consistent plot line in your mind when somebody insists just because they're
paying you much too much money an hour to think about their problems. It's kind
of difficult to maintain the threat of your character's problems in your mind so
that when you're ready to sit down, you at least have, if you don't know what's
going to happen next, at least you remember what's just happened. By the same
token, organization of children and things like that, charming little people
like that make it kind of difficult to write some bitter black stuff that I've
done before.
And so, you know, times change, people change, and environments change, and I
certainly have every intention of sticking at it until it comes together again.
I can't really conceive of any time when I just pack up a typewriter forever and
say, that's it for me. There's no more point in all this. I've never allowed
that. I think to come back to something I already mentioned, I've never allowed
the writing, although it has probably been the most important part of my life
for a great many years in one sense or another. It has never dominated to the
extent that, well, to the extent that I really had to do a good job or to the
extent that failure in any given time frame was to be personal disaster. I
remember the biographies of the great writers of the 30s and those kind of those
stuff, They tend to be a great many writers who do it, what I'd say, do it for
real. And boy, even the great ones very often come to a pretty sad end. It's a
hard regiment. I'm sure everybody realizes.
it's a little daunting even now maybe even personally now
You mentioned you're a lawyer and that oh okay, I go to science fiction
conventions and there are not a lot of lawyers there in fact, there are very few
it just doesn't seem that people who are into that or into science fiction, how
did your bosses, your peers, the people that you work with at your law firm, how
did they take your, when you published the Siege of Wonder and knowing what you
had done, how did they view that? I'm curious. They viewed it with a great deal
of favor because I bought the drinks for that time. The law firm I'm with right
now has a very good mix of personalities and achievements of one field or
another. And it happens to be mine, and it's regarded certainly without the
least bit of law, but I think what I have to be a little, you know, the firm
itself attracts people with different abilities, perspectives, and
personalities. The idea of the New York law firm, or the organization lawyer, to
a large law firm, we only have about 20 folks in ours and as an organization I
think it still cultivates individuality and that happens to be evidence of mine
so it's it's gosh some of the guys in an interview even read the books and they
tell me they enjoy it like I said but then I was buying so it fits in very well
it's not and again going back to what I just said it does not dominate my life
I've not allowed it to um nor have I sought a situation where it could if I
wasn't paying attention or where I would feel that that would be the thing to
do. So I certainly would be very insulted if anybody called it a hobby or
dabbling. I don't believe it's that. But when I'm in the law firm, I trust I'm
regarded as a lawyer who has written some books rather than a has-been-writer
who does it for a living right now. Do you actively or just somewhat keep up
with fantasy and science fiction in its current state now? Regrettably not, no.
I'm a very slow reader. I just don't have enough time.
My primary reading category has always been history, and still is, but I'm just
trying to read as much as I possibly can of whatever appears to be interesting
rather. So I try to mix it in with a pretty fair cross-section of the I don't
want to say popular science, but say comprehensible science, history, novels,
magazines, and sort of things. I still read as much as I can, but it's not a
great deal. Not nearly as much as I'd like. And, of course, what's happening in
science fiction, I've really been out of that for as much as I was ever that are
truly in it for quite some time. So, as far as the latest region in the plot or
aspect, I really couldn't help you there. I did belong to the Fine Fiction
Writers Association for a while, went to a little minor convention here in
Oregon.
So, that was about it, really. organization.
Have you ever considered, if you do write science fiction again, maybe combining
your legal mind with the future, anyway, maybe not science fiction but the
future? There's not been much of that done. Well, I hate to say it but on the
latest attempt on the book that I'm trying to do now, I've really broken myself
down. I'm trying to get away from what I've done. I realize there's very often
only a very few kinds of characters that I have in the prior four books and in
the latest one I'm trying to make the guy a little more of a positive
personality and as it's turned out at least in the latest beginning the fellow
of the Attorney General of the United States so I guess that means something I'm
a little embarrassed by it but it's something different at least he's the
Attorney General of what's left us of the United States. Have you ever read any
books by Charles Harness? Yeah, I haven't. Okay. He's a patent lawyer and he's
one of my very favorite. He's one of these, another one of these people that
produces a lot of books. He's produced six now and he's about 65. But he has one
that just came out called The Venetian Court, which is from a short story. I
think it's about, I think it's in the near future whenever, if you violate a
patent or if you go around something that's patented and you do it anyway, that
you get the death penalty and the lawyer argues the case. And he writes, he has
some short stories that are pretty interesting about lawyers. And other than
that, I don't think there's any other, there are very few lawyer protagonists or
lawyer situations in science fiction. I really, none spring to mind that, in my
experience, that the guy, by the way, in this latest story, even though he is a
lawyer, the attorney general. It's not going to be a law story, he's going to
have that position as much for symbolistic purposes as anything else. But it's
not going to be real what if you do a courtroom battle in the past or future, or
side time. That may be an area, the last thing I want to get into is coming home
from the law and writing the law office. I'm also afraid I just might get into
second defending frustrations again, too. I'm not sure I can do that
potentially.
Okay, that's the end of my question list, so I'll turn the tapes off. Okay. I
wanted to ask you just a couple things off the cuff. When you were in law, you
went to New York University. Where did you live? Did you live right by the
university, right on Washington Square? Maiden Hall right on Washington Square.
Well, I had friends that lived in the village on 4th Street right there, just
that side of 6th Avenue, and we stayed there part of one summer and really had a
great time. Well, it's a weird neighborhood. When were you there? This would
have been the summer of 76. Okay, well, I was there from 68 to 71. um yeah the
problem of course being in school is you've got a lot to do you don't have much
money even if you did have the time and the law school itself is pretty much a
closed little society a lot of folks commuted um um you're sure the tape isn't
on? yeah no problem a real dull bunch of people uh real uh uh I was very much
interested in Wall Street or righteousness, hopefully combining the two. I don't
know how they're going to do that. I was at a very good scholarship group, so I
was fortunate in that aspect. I had some people that I really got along with.
But, you know, it also had the classic New York syndrome, the world ends at the
Hudson River. Maybe if you stand high enough, you can see the John Hancock
básica in Chicago and the Golden Gate Bridge, and of course everybody knows
there's nothing in between. very provincial so that's there's a lot of good
stuff around there a lot of very exciting stuff but as far as my day-to-day
environment pretty discouraging I have a friend who went she's my she got a
she's a Columbia religion undergraduate and then she messed around. Her husband
went to grad school. He's a psych prof. And she's now in her third year at the
University of Texas Law School. And it's been real interesting to see how she
has changed because of law school and she knows it. Just getting in that
mindset. I think her assessment of some of the people that was pretty dull, I
think that's pretty true, by and large. Yeah, it is. And I'll tell you, the
change of thinking, you hear so much about this, about thinking like a lawyer.
it's not that much of a change. It becomes a little bit of a change because it's
surrounded by the secret language. You know, you're picking up a couple of
Captain Midnight words that nobody else, you know, the guy on the street doesn't
know. You're learning things which, when you think about it, aren't terribly
complicated, but by the same time, they're a little artificial. So that, again,
it's unique. The average Joe doesn't know it, so you know something he doesn't.
And as far as the techniques of thinking go, gee, the only real trick is just to
think very carefully, logically, and analytically. And if you do that, and start
with first things first, I mean, that's the great secret as far as the business
of the Socratic method in class and thinking like a lawyer. I really think it's
considerably overblown. But don't tell her I may be wrong or if I'm right
that'll make her sad. I was glad you mentioned to talking about Kenyon I had a
friend that went to Kenyon his name was Aaron Burke I think he would have
graduated Yeah. Wait a minute. And he would have been a year older than me? Yeah
at least. Uh huh. Aaron the Baron? I didn't know him as Aaron the Baron. Yeah
that's Aaron. Yeah, he's a masternatic. Oh, wow. He was a, let's see, when I was
a senior in college, I was working in, I'm a chemist and I was working in a lab
for a professor, an Aaron post-doctoral Dr. This was at Rice. Yeah, right, he
was a chemist. He was a brilliant guy. Oh, very bright. Oh, I miss him. I
learned a lot from him as far as chemistry and what I do, and then he was just a
pretty nice guy. I saw him last in 1972. Oh, amazing. I'm glad I mentioned it
then because he always talked about Kenyan, and it's a small world. Yeah, I
should say. The Baron, he was really quite a figure there. As far as I remember,
he had three pair of jeans, two T-shirts, one change of linen, and a suit. He
got his good will. I never saw him in his suit. Well, maybe he hadn't got his
good will yet. But that's what I meant to, I'm sure he straightened out from the
time he got out back in the real world, but that's along the lines of what I was
talking about, the eccentricity of the place. Really, first-rate lines. Not
terribly stable, though. Yeah. We had some, we used to play a lot of racquetball
in the summers and had some pretty amazing times at night and got the munchies a
lot at late hours, and that was a good time. I miss Aaron. I'm glad I mentioned
him. Oh, good. Okay. I'll let you go. I appreciate it. I was going to ask you if
I could beg your indulgence. Could I possibly send my four books and have them
autographed? Oh, God, sure. And I will put in the return postage and the label
and all that. No, as well. Very fun. Well, thank you. I do appreciate that. It's
been really nice. I've gotten a kick out of this. It's nice to be able to talk
to the people who might marvel at what they write. And I re-read the stuff. I
don't know how many times I've re-read it now, but I wanted to re-read it this
week. And it's been great. And from a fan, please hurry up and write another
one. That's exactly the encouragement I need. I think you might like the new
one. Can I tell you what it's about? Yeah, we'll go right ahead. Okay, well. The
idea is based upon what happens if for some one reason or another the very
finest portion of humanity simply leaves the planet. For one reason, I don't
know exactly why they get fed up with things, but the very best of the doctors,
scientists, god, I guess even the best lawyers can find them. For over a period
of a few years, they just begin leaving and they're gone and then afterwards
people realize that that, A, they are gone, B, that by leaving, you know, if the
beds have left, then what does that make us, if we're left behind. Even though
that includes, you know, the people who are left behind. The majority, this is
very fine folks. And things after that, either because they left or because
people think this is the result of their leaving, it just it gets grossly worse
and worse and worse. After a period of about 40 or 50 years, however, they
gradually stabilized after a lot of the, you know, the usual chaos in this book.
And that's why the heroes, the Attorney General of what's left the United States
now only goes to Chicago. I'm also having enough guts to actually put the story
in real world bars. And a lot of the, the action revolves not the gift of
leaving, But they were finally getting to calm down when it suddenly turned out
that they're coming back.
Okay. You think you'll submit it to Daw? Well, I was real fortunate. One of
those little stories that when I was a Kenyan. Again, I was not in the English
section because I really thought they were much too intelligent and good for me.
they had a novel to speak to the honors English section I wheedled my way
into a reception couldn't get into the seminar he was running at the time but I
met him and talked to him briefly and we hit it off and discussed some of the
problems because my first one was already coming out by that time he recommended
his agent in New York Malcolm Reese at Paul Reynolds agency, who I then saw. And
as it turned out, Reese, first of all, was just one of the really first-rate
guys, one of the real gentlemen I've met in my life. And he liked science
fiction because he'd edited his fall from the 30s, and unknown to me, his son
had graduated from Kenyon a year or two ahead of me. So we had it off pretty
well, and he tried to peddle. I believe the Daystar didn't get anywhere, and
very graciously turned it back to me to just sell to olheim and not take a
commission and then uh uh then he managed to uh sell uh siege of wonder to
double day uh the gentleman died after that but then his son is now carrying on
and so i've got uh at least i've got a name back there and hopefully they're
remembering and if i get something i'll send it out to them and i'll circulate
around see what happens. Well, great. We'll be watching for it. Well, thanks for
keeping a lookout on the ones you have so far. Okay, thanks. It's been great.
I'll send you the books within a couple of weeks and I do appreciate that. Okay,
great. Have a good trip to Reno and we'll talk to you later, Mark. Great. Good
night, now. Bye.